Title: Bagholding Nintendo Stock 
Date: 2026-05-27 10:33 
Category: Essay

I've held in Nintendo ADRs (NTDOY) for 5 years and 3 months at current time. Over time, I have realized about $400 of after tax gains. I feel the stock has been kneecapped due to the ongoing memory chip shortage. Nintendo needs chips to make its consoles.

In retrospect, I managed the position well. Even though I ended up buying the top above $24/ADR, equivalent to 0.25 shares on the Japanese exchange. Today those same ADRs hover around $11.

After scaling up the position into the Switch 2 launch last year, I realized Nintendo might be considered vulnerable to memory draught or cost hikes. As the memory price increase trend became apparent, I noted that Nintendo shares were underperforming. I sold off some shares on the way down from $22, sold again at $16. With the story around Nintendo continuing to sour, I finally cleared my lowest cost $10 and $12 lots at a small profit recently. I asked myself, "how bad can this get for Nintendo?" In terms of supply chain and pricing, Nintendo couldn't have forseen the memory demand AI trend.
They sold more than 17 million Switch 2 consoles in 2025. It beat its initial projection of 15 million consoles. Yet, the stock hasn't reflected this momentum.

I am still long $3122 invested and down 41% on my remaining shares, in the hole $1,288. Therefore, I now need a 69% gain to break even. This is what happens when you buy into the hype of a big launch and then get blindsided by the memory supply chain. I haven't incurred any losses yet on the shares I sold. At the top, I held 300 ADRs. Today I'm holding 165. Nearly half of my peak position has been moved into other investments. Long term, I might tax loss harvest from the position if it doesn't turn around for Nintendo. Fundamentally, I think they are executing well at a high level but have found themselves on the wrong side of memory chip macro. 

In the end, I underperformed the market with Nintendo. I'm planning to keep the rest of my shares and continue collecting dividend income. I needed to take more off the table in the months following the Switch 2 launch last year. Instead, I realized my error as the memory impacts began to show in the stock price. I took action to reduce my cost basis from approximately $4,800 to $3,122 by taking profits as things played out the past year. 

At its peak, my Nintendo shares reached a market value of $6,500 in 2025. I didn't know it then, but the bottom was destined to fall out of the stock. In the midst of raging bull market. This is why stings a bit more. I could have just bought an index and been coasting. Yet another example of how stockpickers tend to underperform. I could have bought more SK Hynix or Samsung instead. Instead I bought Nintendo. 

There is a lesson here, but I'm not done holding Nintendo. I guess the lesson is don't only look at the company level execution to assess fundamentals. Don't only look at the end product. Consider how the product is sourced. In this case, macro factors KO'd the stock. The narrative became "Nintendo is a memory loser". The outlook shifted in an unexpected and novel way. Nintendo relies on a commodity, memory chips, to make its Switch consoles. AI ate the memory supply. Did the market overestimate the impact on Nintendo? Will they rebound. The Switch 2 launch fundamentals seem to be going with a new popular Pokemon game launching recently and generating sales. The Nintendo IP is deep and should not be underestimated.

In spite of the perplexing way the stock reacted as the Switch 2 launch unfolded, I've decided not to sell it all. I guess that makes me a Nintendo bull and bagholder. The rest of my remaining shares are underwater. When the market is moving the other way, you've got to assess why you didn't benefit like other companies.

My conviction has been shaken by the raw realities of procurement. Nintendo's place in the supply chain had never entered my mind when I bought my first ADRs in February 2021. With my conviction tested, reducing position size seemed sensible. Active approach seems to have been the right move for this one. I now feel less pain letting this stock ride. 